Welcome back in the previous lecture we were trying to find the segments of this image.
However given the image processing techniques that we already know we were unsuccessful in doing so
because we can clearly see here that there's six separate pennies but the finding contour methods we
know so far even when applied with blurring and thresholding you can only find the external contour
of this general shape.
Now let's try using the watershed algorithm to actually find the six distinct Penneys in the foreground
versus the general background.
And there's a couple of steps to actually doing this.
And I would encourage you to check out the notebook where we actually clearly label each step.
So step one is to read in the image we're going to pretend like we haven't done any of the analysis
above.
So starting fresh We will read in the image and it's in the data folder.
It's called pennies.
And next we're going to apply blur.
So I'll say image is equal to CB2 median blur.
And for the watershed algorithm if you have a really large image like this I recommend applying a really
strong blur to it.
So I'm actually going to choose a huge kernel size 35.
When I was experimenting with this particular image I noticed that is what worked well for me.
I would not actually recommend 13:5 as a default.
It's just that this is a huge image is 4000 by 3000.
And even with such a large image with these level of details here I want to really blur it essentially
I just want six circles.
So we're going to blur it quite a bit.
Let me just show you the effects of that by displaying that image.
So here we can see the six.
So there's still minor details of the face here but clearly very blurred.
Next is to convert that to grayscale.
I will say Gray is equal to CB2 CVT color image CB2.
And then we'll say color and right now we're going from blue green red to gray.
The next step is to actually apply a threshold on the greyscale image.
I'm first going to attempt to apply the same threshold we did last time.
So last time I said CB2 threshold and I pass in the gray scale and I chose my halfway point as 6:59
and said to five five and then applied the binary threshold inversed so threshold binary inverse.
If I actually just tried this by itself for this particular image it's been blurred so much and often
you do have to blur images quite a bit with the watershed algorithm.
You'll notice what happens if I say display threshold then I end up getting some noise due to the features
which is kind of crazy given just how much this image is blurred.
It's still able to actually pick up on some of those features.
We don't want that we want to try to make that just distinct circles.
So what I'm going to do is apply Su's method and if he can check out the Wikipedia article that's link
to this lecture or just google search Azziz method.
It's another method of thresholding and it works really well in conjunction of watershed algorithm.
You can see here the results here from the original image to the threshold that image here.
So we'll come back here and for this particular we're thresholding you give the lower and upper limits
just as the min and max 0 and 255 and then we're going to add in CV to and then call thrash underscore
to whoops that underscore to the Rio.
So now run that a should get a nicer threshold that image.
So there we go we have these six circles.
Those are still actually connected.
So even with this more is asked thresholding technique.
We can still not actually separate these without any sort of erosion taking place.
We're going to also do noise removal.
Technically this is an optional step and it won't really make a difference for such a simple image as
six pennies but I do want to include it because it's more or less a common step when you're dealing
with more complex images.
So this is where all this noise removal.
Consider it optional right now for this particular problem because it doesn't have an effect.
But we will see it later on when we apply watershed algorithm later.
So for noise removal we're going to use the morphological operators that we're already familiar with
from the image processing lectures will say N.P. ones is a three by three an integer sort of say you
I antedate.
So we create a kernel right here.
It's just three by three of ones and we're going to do a bit of opening here by saying CB2 morphology
passen the threshold that image and then say CB2 more open.
And as we learned during the morphological operators lecture this is a pretty good way to reduce some
noise.
We'll say kernel and we'll just have it go through two iterations and you can review the morphological
operators lecture in case you're are a little fuzzy on what this line is doing.
Now as I mentioned for this specific problem it's not going to really have any effect.
So let's go ahead and display it.
So there's the result of opening essentially looks almost the same but it is an important step to do
noise removal.
If you do have noise and if you're trying to do a normal threshold such as this threshold binary removing
noise would have been a good idea.
It probably would have gotten rid of that noise from the faces so we can either use a more complex version
of thresholding or you can't remove noise kind of up to you which way to go.
All right.
Now we're still facing a fundamental problem here.
Recall what makes this task so hard is that the coins themselves are touching each other in the image.
So even through blurring and dilation morphological operators attempts that erosion noise removal all
that stuff were still dealt with this issue that we have this blob and all these points are still connected
to each other.
Well we need to do for the watershed algorithm is set seeds that we are sure are in the foreground and
particularly we want six of those seeds we want one seed for each center of each of these coins.
So how do we actually grab things that we are sure is the foreground versus things that we are sure
are the background to something we can do is called a distance transform.
You can check out the Wikipedia page on distance transform but the idea is actually pretty simple if
you're given a binary image then you should have just zeros and ones or zeros and 250 fives.
And with the distance transformations does is as pixels are further away from zeros than there value
actually ends up getting higher.
Meaning they'll look brighter.
So you can see here if we zoom in on the binary image right now we just have zeros and ones after you
apply that distance transformation points that are further away from the zero.
In this case the background.
They actually become brighter.
So then these get two and then the very center gets three.
So if you would actually perform these distance transforms and see the results of images you can do
a google image search and you'll get things that look like this.
For instance here we have a horse.
And notice that only around the center is it brightest.
And as you get further and further to the edge it becomes darker.
We can apply a distance transform to our threshold right now so we can apply this and transform to this
and we would expect only the very centers of the circles to be bright and then slowly fade away into
a dark gray as you go further further away from the center.
Then once we have that image we can reach threshold again and then get the six foreground points that
we're sure of and I would encourage you to check out the resource link here on this distance transform
of morphological operators which again shows the actual operation that is occurring as you get further
away from the zeros the value gets higher and the brightness.
And what's really nice about this is if you zoom in here you'll notice it shows you the binary images
and at what they become after you do a distance transform.
So essentially the center of the images become brighter and things closer to black and being faded away.
All right.
So let's actually check this out.
We're going to perform the distance transform on the subject and the way we do that is the following
way we're going to say these t transform is equal to CV to and then we're going to call distance transform.
We're going to pass in the opening from before and then some default values C-v to DST underscore L2.
That's just a method that actually calculates the distance and then 5 is another default value there
for the actual.
If you take a look it's the mask size.
So that has to do with the way the distance calculated but these are good default values to play around
with.
All right.
So again the reason repassing opening here is because remember we have opening from appear on this morphological
opening so we got rid of some noise with that step.
A lot of this doesn't really look clear based on the image we're using but these are important steps
to take and they're all labeled out for you in the actual book.
So we're going to perform that distance transform and then we're going to do say ARYEETEY and then say
Sure foreground and in fact let's actually display this image transform or this distance transform this
distance transform.
So the result of this dissonance transform is the following.
Notice how bright it is at the very center so further away from the zero values it gets brighter and
then it turns grayer as it gets towards the outside.
And now I have six very clear points that I'm pretty sure is the foreground.
So all apply in another thresholding to this to hopefully just grab those six dots and then I will be
able to apply those to the watershed algorithm and it will understand that those are the six segments
it should be looking into.
So right now I have my distance transform and I'm going to create six object objects that I'm sure happen
to be in the foreground will say the sure F.G..
So sure foreground is equal to C.V to I'll call threshold and then passing in the distance transform
the image above.
And then I will pasan for my limit.
Typically what people do is they say 70 percent of the max value in the distance transform.
So 70 percent of them max value in the distance transform and they'll pass and turn 55 for the max and
then zero there.
So we run this and if we actually display now the sure foreground we get six points.
So all we did was threshold this image and it makes sense that when you threshold it it will just get
these kind of six smaller dots.
So these six points we are absolutely sure happen to be in the foreground because we put a distance
transform and then we did a thresholding and we safely did our distance transform because we had also
calculated things that we were sure were in the background.
Through this dilation process.
All right so now that we have the sure background and the sheer foreground there is kind of this in-between
section.
So anything that was left here that's in white that isn't present in this image in white.
That's the unknown region.
That's what we need the watershed Algren's to figure out.
So let's actually display and find the unknown region.
So we will say the following.
We will say that the sure foreground and we're going to cast it as an integer.
We'll say you I.A. 8 of sure foreground and the unknown region is equal to CB2 subtract.
And I'm going to subtract the sure background from the foreground.
So remember Sure background that's where I was sure I had background and the foreground are these six
points which I'm absolutely a hundred percent confident are in the foreground.
Well as confident as anyone can be given the algorithms which make sense since thoughts here it's pretty
obvious.
So now I have this unknown region so let's display the unknown and make sure I spell that right.
Display the unknown.
There you go.
So these are the regions where I'm actually not sure if it belongs to the foreground or the background.
I'm going to need to do is make label markers out of these six foreground points and then have those
be the seeds that the watershed algorithm uses to actually find its segments.
So we'll come back down here.
I have this unknown region and then I have my share foreground and my shirt background.
So now it's time for the final steps creating the label markers for the watershed algorithm.
So there's three steps here to actually creating these markers.
The first one is actually getting the markers themselves and will say AURITI markers is equal to CB2.
And we're going to use a function called connected components and connected components.
What it's going to do is it's just going to take in.
In our case the image.
So we're going to pass in our Sure foreground image.
Remember the sure foreground image is this image right here with six points.
So these are six points that we actually want to fit in as the markers.
So we're going to run this and right now if you check out the markers these are actually contain zeros.
And we want to add one to all these labels so that the shirt background is not zero but one.
So we're going to say markers is equal to markers plus one.
And the reason we're doing that is because now I'm going to mark the region of unknown with zero I will
say markers where unknown is equal to 255 because remember this is the unknown right here.
These little donuts.
Well we're not sure if that belongs to the background or to the foreground of the coin itself.
So what I will do is I'm going to label those as completely black.
So we'll set that as equal to zero.
And that's why I added one here because I don't want these markers to get confused with the black background
of this unknown region.
So it's actually display what markers looks like now.
So your markers should then look like this.
And essentially this is what you have to build up to in order to build up the watershed algorithm in
the next lecture.
We'll actually show you kind of a cool tool kit that does this manually.
You just end up clicking and you select these sort of points.
But this is the general process that's happening behind the scenes.
We now have clearly labeled the background that we're sure of.
So this gray in the back.
That's the Bakra that we're sure of this black area.
That's the unknown region.
I'm not sure if this is foreground or background.
Now in this case it's actually pretty easy to tell that it's pretty much all foreground but the way
the computer vision algorithms work they were unsure of this region as well.
They were unsure if this was 6 or 1 but what's nice is we also labeled sure foreground.
And we did it with the distance transform which allowed us to actually set these six markers here.
So now I have these markers that are going to act as seeds for the watershed algorithm.
So then the final step is to apply the watershed algorithm to the markers.
So I'll say markers is equal to CB2.
And then we call watershed pasan.
The original image and then pass and the markers run that.
And then you can go ahead and display the markers and you'll notice that it was able to find six distinct
markers here and you can actually play around this the color mapping.
If this isn't clear enough for you.
But these are six distinct shades of gray.
Then what we can do is find the contours on the actual markers.
So I'm just going to copy and paste the context code that we used earlier.
So we'll come all the way back up here.
Remember we previously used this code to find contours.
So I will copy this come all the way back down paste it in and I'll do one more.
Because we saw those three lines of code.
We'll also do this one right here.
And then we're to come all the way back down and do that as well.
Except we're not finding contours on this.
Instead we're finding contours on the markers that we just created appear.
So we have these markers now.
Now we're going to find contours for them and if we read this and then display the results on separated
coins.
Notice now we were successfully able to distinctly segment each of the coins themselves.
All right.
So that's the power of the watershed algorithm.
We did a lot of the heavy lifting on the back and we essentially coded it out manually in the next lecture.
We're going to set up a way that we can just click on an image set the seeds and then have watershed
algorithm automatically fill it in for us.
That's a more convenient way of working the watershed algorithm.
But it is important they understand the basic steps here.
Let me just do a quick review of everything we did for the watershed algorithm in order to really make
sure you have a clear understanding.
So we started all the way back up here when we read in the image itself.
So Step 1 was read in the image.
Step two was to apply a blurring and keep in mind we applied a pretty strong blur because this was quite
a large detailed image.
So then we ended up with this then the next step was to put it to grayscale and then apply thresholding
to it.
And we specifically applied two types of thresholding a binary inverse along with this or two.
Thresholding that you can check out to Bethan on Wikipedia which works really well for large images
like the one we're working with here.
So then when we display that actual threshold that image we get something that looks like this.
Keep in mind this hasn't really solve their problems because all these coins are next to each other.
We still have the issue that the threshold ID image still looks like these are all connected to each
other.
So how do we actually take care of this.
Well one thing we try to do is remove noise and maybe try Rojan.
In this case we don't really have any effect but it's a good idea to do so.
And we're going to do instead is two things we're going to grab what we're sure that the background
is and then we're going to grab what we're sure that the foreground is.
So the foreground right here the way we ground the shur background is through dilation which makes sense
you would just expand the foreground until you know you hit some sort of limit such as iteration is
equal to three.
And then you have what you're sure is left is the background and then you're going to provide a distance
transform to actually calculate the centers of your foreground objects the brightest parts and then
you can provide a threshold on that.
And then you have the things that you're sure of the foreground then you're going to subtract the two
from each other.
The shur background versus the shur foreground.
And you're left with your unknown region your unknown region is what your watershed algorithm is going
to help you solve.
So using those connected components we're going to actually grab some markers until we end up with an
image like this where we have the background we're sure of the unknown region and then the six marker
points right here.
So they're all actually a different color of gray then we can find contours on those markers after we
apply the watershed algorithm to it.
We get these six distinct points on segments.
We find those contours and there we go.
We were able to successfully segment this into the six pennies.
You should also notice that it's segmented all around the image just the general background itself.
It got cut off on the top and left due to the edge but it did that as well.
OK.
Definitely check out the resource links.
If this all was a little too complicated for you don't worry about it too much because the very next
lecture we're going to show a simplified version of using the watershed algorithm which is a lot more
interactive.
We'll see it there.